# Evaluation of the OCR quality (or why we decided to transcript the texts)

We were not able to find a realiable OCR measure method, but evaluating it with our own eyes led us to the following conclusions:

The quality of scans available makes for very poor quality of the OCR. The scans were made from early editions, which reflects in the used characters (e.g. long s - problematic in distinguishing from f, ligatures such as fi, ss, st), as well as the color and discolorations of paper, especially problematic being the visible print from other pages, be it due to thinness of paper or traces of ink. Some of the pages also include graphical ornaments underneath the text. As for typography, most texts use two or more font sizes, with smaller one determining the speaker, and italicized stage directions. The small fonts are often so small, that the characters lack clear marks allowing for easy distinguishing between similar ones, such as 'o', 'e', 'a' and 'c'. Many of the accents above letters are faded or irregularly marked, which makes their recognition more difficult and causes problems for the OCR algorithm to distinguish between letters. The texts do not apply even spacing between words and characters, which causes problems in word delimitation. Uneven formating of lines sometimes causes deletions of the parts of the text or their misplacement in the order of text. Unfortunately, these characteristics of the scans make for not only frequent but also highly irregular errors, the correction of which would be more time-consuming and error-prone than transcribing the texts from the scratch. 
